<div align="center">
  <h3>Variability</h3>
</div>

**What is variability?**

Variability is the ability of organisms to change and accuire a different appearance from their parents. Depending if the children inherit these changes variability splits into two types - hereditary (genotypic, mutational) and nonhereditary (phenotypic, modification).

**Modification variability**

The ability of organisms to change their phenotype under the influence of environmental conditions is called modification variability.

The changes that appear in the organisms are called modifications. They are:
- nonhereditary
- reversible
- have a mass character
- have an adaptive character

Examples are:
- Siamese cats produce more melanin (dark pigment) in colder conditions, that is why they have darker fur in cooler areas of the body.
- Plants have more and bigger leaves when they grow in warmer conditions.
- Under the influence of solar radiation, people's skin darkens. Sunburn disappears gradually after the removal of the active factor.

**Mutational variability**

Mutational variability is the ability of organisms to change due to changes in hereditary material (DNA). Mutational variability is due to changes in the genetic program of the organism.

Factors that cause mutations are called mutagenic factors (mutagens). They can be physical (high temperature, radiation), biological (viruses) and chemical (various chemicals).

**Mutations**

A sudden, abrupt change in genetic information that often leads to changes in the phenotype is called a mutation. Individuals who bear the new traits are called mutants.

The Dutch botanist Hugo de Vries first used the term "mutation" in 1903. He developed a theory of mutational variability, according to which:
- mutations occur suddenly
- mutations are qualitative changes in a genetic trait
- new traits are inherited
- mutations can be both harmful and beneficial
- the same mutations can occur again at different locations and at different times

Mutations are:
- hereditary
- irreversible
- have an individual character
- not adaptive in nature

**<p align="center"><a href="https://github.com/codingburgas/2122-10-biology-YVSimeonova19/tree/main/documents/lesson%20materials">Back to MENU</a></p>**

---

### Sources:
<p>Biology Textbook for 10th grade from Mariya Shishanova, Aneli Nedelcheva, Asya Asenova, Irina Vrajdaleva, Lilyana Bancheva</p>