<div align="center">
  <h3>Biocoenosis</h3>
</div>

**What is a biocoenosis?** 

A biocoenosis is all the interacting organisms that live together in a specific habitat or biotope, forming an ecological community.

**Composition of a bioceonosis**

Every bioceonosis has a specie that outnumbers all others living in said area. Such species are called dominant and usually bioceonosis get named after that certain species. Living organisms in bioceonosis also form three groups based on their eating habits. The first group is producers, and it includes all species that create food for others (plants). The second group is consumers. This group includes all living beings that consume the food made by the producers. Lastly, the third group is of the regulators. They decompose organic matter and turn it into non-organic.

**Types of bioceonoses**

Bioceonosis can be simple or complex depending on how rich their variety of species are.

Based on the populations living in a certain bioceonosis, the bioceonosis can be:

- Zoocenosis for the faunal community.
- Phytocenosis for the flora community.
- Microbiocenosis for the microbial community.

**Morphological structure of a bioceonosis**

Horizontal structure:

It describes the way different populations can live one a top of another. As an example, we can imagine a tree in which many organisms live. Such a structure can be called a consortium where the tree is a determinant and the living organisms (like bugs, birds, etc.) are consorts.

Vertical structure:

It is associated with the distribution of organisms in a vertical direction. The vertical structure is expressed by having various levels in height in the biocenosis. The stage distribution is mainly observed with plants. There are usually four levels:

1. Level of the tallest trees
1. Level of immature tall trees
1. Level of smaller trees
1. Level of grasses

<h3>Sources:</h3>
<p>Biology Textbook for 10th grade from Mariya Shishanova, Aneli Nedelcheva, Asya Asenova, Irina Vrajdaleva, Lilyana Bancheva</p>